h1. WIDE - WxWidgets IDE for Inform 6

WIDE is an Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for the Inform 6 Language.
Wide is a win32 Editor for Inform6: is an Integrated Development Environment (IDE), written entirely in C++/WxWidgets, for the creation of text adventures based on Graham Nelson's Inform6 Language. With Wide it's possible to edit, compile and run a text adventure in the z-code and glulx formats.

h2. Main Features:

* Written in C++ (using the wxWidgets Library)
* Wide runs on Win32 / Linux systems
* Wide is localized in spanish, english, italian, german and french (simply customizing its wide.ini file...)
* Auto-completion window, in edit mode
* Wide is just an exe file: no DLL, no virtual machines. Wide is a stand alone application.
* Wrap lines, show number of lines, code folding
* Inform/Glulx support: wide supports zcode (5 and 8 version), ulx, blb, bres
* Objects tree and Syntax highlight is customizable
* Wide is portable: it can be started from an USB key/pen

h2. Authors:
* Alessandro Schillaci
* Paolo Lucchesi

h2. License:

Wide is an open source project (GNU GPL License).

h2. Thanks to:

Urbatain, Christof Menear and Eric Forgeot for the wide translation in spanish, german and french.
Josè Manuel, for hints, suggestions and testing

h2. Install

h3. Install on Linux:

h4. 1) install runtime wxgtk3.0

Archlinux example:
<pre><code>sudo pacman -S wxgtk git
sudo pacman -S extra/wxgtk
sudo pacman -S gtk2hs-buildtools
</code></pre>

h4. 2) clone the wide repository 

<pre><code>git clone https://github.com/silverslade/wide
</code></pre>

h4. 3) compile wide

<pre><code>cd wide
cd src
make
</code></pre>

Note:
* in case of errors uncomment line starting by "WX_LIBS" (see the makefile)
you shouldn't use "--as-needed" flag, use "--no-as-needed" instead

h4. 4) compiling wide under kdevelop (optional)

If you want to use kdevelop (with code completion) to compile wide, install it with

<pre><code>sudo pacman -S kdevelop</pre></code>

Start Kdevelop and open wide/Makefile as project


h3. Install on Windows:

h4. 1) Install mingw and wxwidgets 3.0.1

* download and install mingw from here http://sourceforge.net/projects/mingw/files/latest/download
* download wxwidgets 3.0.1 or above from https://www.wxwidgets.org/downloads/
* unzip wxwidgets 3.0 (under c:/wxWidgets-3.0.1)
* compile it

<pre><code>cd c:/wxWidgets-3.0.1
cd build
cd msw
mingw32-make -f makefile.gcc SHARED=0 RUNTIME_LIBS=static MONOLITHIC=1 BUILD=release UNICODE=1 
</code></pre>
	
(in case of errors rename C:\MinGW\msys in C:\MinGW\OLDmsys and recompile for a msys uncompatibilty)
after compiling wxwidgets, unrename C:\MinGW\OLDmsys to C:\MinGW\msys 

In case of this error:
<pre><code>../../src/msw/treectrl.cpp: In member function 'virtual bool wxTreeCtrl::MSWOnNotify(int, WXLPARAM, WXLPARAM*)':
../../src/msw/treectrl.cpp:3280:17: error: 'NMTVDISPINFOWW' was not declared in this scope
</code></pre>

edit line 2217 of /mingw/include/commctrl.h and change
<code><pre>#define TV_DISPINFO NMTVDISPINFO</code></pre>
instead of
<code><pre>#define TV_DISPINFO __AW(NMTVDISPINFO)</code></pre>

h4. 2) install GIT

install GIT as command line from http://git-scm.com/download/win
(or install github as client windows from https://windows.github.com/)

h4. 3) clone the wide repository 

<pre><code>git clone https://github.com/silverslade/wide
</code></pre>

h4. 4) edit the wide/makefile.gcc

edit the wide/makefile.gcc to fit your directories before compile it

h4. 5) Compile Wide under Windows

then you can compile wide under windows using this makefile and MinGW

<pre><code>cd wide
cd src
mingw32-make -f makefile.gcc
</code></pre>

h4. 6) Install CodeLite (optional)

if you want to use a C++ IDE, you can install CodeLite (http://codelite.org/) and edit wide.project using your wxWidgets path and then open wide workspace with CodeLite.

Example:

<pre><code><Compiler Options="--fno-exceptions -fno-pcc-struct-return -fstrict-aliasing -Wall -D__WXMSW__ -D__GNUWIN32__ -D__WIN95__ -DUNICODE=1" C_Options="-g;-O0;-Wall" Assembler="" Required="yes" PreCompiledHeader="" PCHInCommandLine="no" UseDifferentPCHFlags="no" PCHFlags="">
        <IncludePath Value="."/>
        <IncludePath Value="C:/wxWidgets-3.0.1/contrib/include"/>
        <IncludePath Value="C:/wxWidgets-3.0.1/include"/>
        <IncludePath Value="C:/wxWidgets-3.0.1/lib/gcc_lib/mswu"/>
        <IncludePath Value="C:/wxWidgets-3.0.1/"/>
      </Compiler>
</code></pre>

and

<pre><code><SearchPaths>C:\wxWidgets-3.0.1\include\</SearchPaths>
</code></pre>

CodeLite will build wide using the Makefile.gcc and it will let you use the code completion
